At this point, you should be fairly comfortable
dealing with local state inside of your components.
However, one thing we haven't talked about yet,
is how to fetch and manage data that is living in a database somewhere.
Your first intuition might be to make an Ajax request inside of the render method.
Unfortunately, that's a bad idea because
the render method needs to be free of side effects.
It shouldn't make Ajax request,
or do anything that is asynchronous in nature.
It should only receive props and return a description of the UI.
So, if we can't make Ajax requests in the render method, where should we make them?
This introduces the concept of life cycle events in React.
Lifecycle events are special methods each component has,
that allow us to run custom behavior during certain times of the component's life.
Times like when a component is being created and inserted into the DOM,
when a component receives new props, and a few others.
React has a bunch of different lifecycle events that you can hook into, but for now,
we're only going to talk about the most common ones.
First, is componentDidMount.
It's immediately invoked after the component is inserted into the DOM.
Then, comes componentWillUnmount which is
invoked immediately before component is removed from the DOM.
Last is getDerivedStateFromProps, which will
be invoked whenever the component is about to receive brand new props.
Now, I realize this is a lot of information to remember.
Don't get overwhelmed thinking you need to memorize all of them.
Instead, try to remember that they exist,
and then look up the documentation when you need them.
Now, we still have to answer the initial question,
if we wanted to fetch external data from an API, how would we do this?
This is the perfect use case for the componentDidMount lifecycle events.